In this lesson, we're going to learn about
a more advanced tool for plotting signals in the frequency domain.
Up until now, we've just been plotting the FFT of
a signal in much the same way we plot the signal in time domain.
But as you'll soon see this can be misleading.
Let's make a signal whose frequency components change in time.
The signal is a sine wave that starts out at
zero hertz and slowly increases in frequency over time.
Ultimately, at the end of two minutes,
it reaches a frequency of 10 hertz.
So let's take the Fourier transform of the signal.
We see that it has
all the frequency components from zero to 10 hertz and then not much else,
but this doesn't really tell us all about the signal.
We don't know whether it started at zero and went to
10 hertz or if it started from 10 hertz and went to zero hertz,
or if it just had all frequency components in the signal at all the times.
So if we plot the FFT of just one portion of the signal early on,
we can see that the main frequency component is pretty small.
In this case, it's less than half a hertz.
We can repeat this process for the entire signal
continually taking small windows of the signal,
computing the Fourier transform,
and then aggregating it together into
a matrix we call the short-time Fourier transform, or STFT.
This matrix has one column per window,
and each column is the Fourier transform of that window.
We can display this matrix as an image where the color of each pixel is
the value of that cell in the matrix using the imshow matplotlib commands.
When we do this, we can see that the frequency of
our signal increases from zero hertz to 10 hertz over time.
Matplotlib has a function that does something similar to this called specgram,
which plots the spectrogram of the signal.
By now you should be familiar enough with matplotlib
where you can figure out how to use this function using the documentation.
So I'll leave that to you to force you to read the documentation.
When we plot the spectrogram,
you can see it's very similar and we can see
that the frequency in our signal increases from zero to 10 hertz over time.
You'll be using the short time Fourier transform in spectrogram in the next exercise.